And he made a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: with cherubims made he it of cunning work. 
And he made thereunto four pillars of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold: their hooks were of gold; and he cast for them four sockets of silver. 
And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, of needlework; 
And the five pillars of it with their hooks: and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold: but their five sockets were of brass. 
And Bezaleel made the ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a half was the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it: 
And he overlaid it with pure gold within and without, and made a crown of gold to it round about. 
And he cast for it four rings of gold, to be set by the four corners of it; even two rings upon the one side of it, and two rings upon the other side of it. 
And he made staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold. 
And he put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, to bear the ark. 
And he made the mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half was the length thereof, and one cubit and a half the breadth thereof. 
And he made two cherubims of gold, beaten out of one piece made he them, on the two ends of the mercy seat; 
One cherub on the end on this side, and another cherub on the other end on that side: out of the mercy seat made he the cherubims on the two ends thereof. 
And the cherubims spread out their wings on high, and covered with their wings over the mercy seat, with their faces one to another; even to the mercy seatward were the faces of the cherubims. 
And he made the table of shittim wood: two cubits was the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof: 
And he overlaid it with pure gold, and made thereunto a crown of gold round about. 
Also he made thereunto a border of an handbreadth round about; and made a crown of gold for the border thereof round about. 
And he cast for it four rings of gold, and put the rings upon the four corners that were in the four feet thereof. 
Over against the border were the rings, the places for the staves to bear the table. 
And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold, to bear the table. 
And he made the vessels which were upon the table, his dishes, and his spoons, and his bowls, and his covers to cover withal, of pure gold. 
And he made the candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work made he the candlestick; his shaft, and his branch, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, were of the same: 
And six branches going out of the sides thereof; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side thereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side thereof: 
Three bowls made after the fashion of almonds in one branch, a knop and a flower; and three bowls made like almonds in another branch, a knop and a flower: so throughout the six branches going out of the candlestick. 
And in the candlestick were four bowls made like almonds, his knops, and his flowers: 
And a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, according to the six branches going out of it. 
Their knops and their branches were of the same: all of it was one beaten work of pure gold. 
And he made his seven lamps, and his snuffers, and his snuffdishes, of pure gold. 
Of a talent of pure gold made he it, and all the vessels thereof. 
And he made the incense altar of shittim wood: the length of it was a cubit, and the breadth of it a cubit; it was foursquare; and two cubits was the height of it; the horns thereof were of the same. 
And he overlaid it with pure gold, both the top of it, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns of it: also he made unto it a crown of gold round about. 
And he made two rings of gold for it under the crown thereof, by the two corners of it, upon the two sides thereof, to be places for the staves to bear it withal. 
And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold. 
And he made the holy anointing oil, and the pure incense of sweet spices, according to the work of the apothecary. 
And he made the altar of burnt offering of shittim wood: five cubits was the length thereof, and five cubits the breadth thereof; it was foursquare; and three cubits the height thereof. 
And he made the horns thereof on the four corners of it; the horns thereof were of the same: and he overlaid it with brass. 
And he made all the vessels of the altar, the pots, and the shovels, and the basons, and the fleshhooks, and the firepans: all the vessels thereof made he of brass. 
And he made for the altar a brasen grate of network under the compass thereof beneath unto the midst of it. 
And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of brass, to be places for the staves. 
And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with brass. 
And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar, to bear it withal; he made the altar hollow with boards. 
And he made the laver of brass, and the foot of it of brass, of the lookingglasses of the women assembling, which assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
And he made the court: on the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, an hundred cubits: 
Their pillars were twenty, and their brasen sockets twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. 
And for the north side the hangings were an hundred cubits, their pillars were twenty, and their sockets of brass twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver. 
And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver. 
And for the east side eastward fifty cubits. 
The hangings of the one side of the gate were fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
And for the other side of the court gate, on this hand and that hand, were hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
All the hangings of the court round about were of fine twined linen. 
And the sockets for the pillars were of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver; and the overlaying of their chapiters of silver; and all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver. 
And the hanging for the gate of the court was needlework, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: and twenty cubits was the length, and the height in the breadth was five cubits, answerable to the hangings of the court. 
And their pillars were four, and their sockets of brass four; their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their chapiters and their fillets of silver. 
And all the pins of the tabernacle, and of the court round about, were of brass. 
This is the sum of the tabernacle, even of the tabernacle of testimony, as it was counted, according to the commandment of Moses, for the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, son to Aaron the priest. 
And Bezaleel the son Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the LORD commanded Moses. 
And with him was Aholiab, son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, and a cunning workman, and an embroiderer in blue, and in purple, and in scarlet, and fine linen. 
All the gold that was occupied for the work in all the work of the holy place, even the gold of the offering, was twenty and nine talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary. 
And the silver of them that were numbered of the congregation was an hundred talents, and a thousand seven hundred and threescore and fifteen shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary: 
A bekah for every man, that is, half a shekel, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for every one that went to be numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty men. 
And of the hundred talents of silver were cast the sockets of the sanctuary, and the sockets of the vail; an hundred sockets of the hundred talents, a talent for a socket. 
And of the thousand seven hundred seventy and five shekels he made hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their chapiters, and filleted them. 
And the brass of the offering was seventy talents, and two thousand and four hundred shekels. 
And therewith he made the sockets to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the brasen altar, and the brasen grate for it, and all the vessels of the altar, 
And the sockets of the court round about, and the sockets of the court gate, and all the pins of the tabernacle, and all the pins of the court round about. 
And of the blue, and purple, and scarlet, they made cloths of service, to do service in the holy place, and made the holy garments for Aaron; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
And he made the ephod of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen. 
And they did beat the gold into thin plates, and cut it into wires, to work it in the blue, and in the purple, and in the scarlet, and in the fine linen, with cunning work. 
They made shoulderpieces for it, to couple it together: by the two edges was it coupled together. 
And the curious girdle of his ephod, that was upon it, was of the same, according to the work thereof; of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
And they wrought onyx stones inclosed in ouches of gold, graven, as signets are graven, with the names of the children of Israel. 
And he put them on the shoulders of the ephod, that they should be stones for a memorial to the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
And he made the breastplate of cunning work, like the work of the ephod; of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen. 
It was foursquare; they made the breastplate double: a span was the length thereof, and a span the breadth thereof, being doubled. 
And they set in it four rows of stones: the first row was a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this was the first row. 
And the second row, an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond. 
And the third row, a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst. 
And the fourth row, a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper: they were inclosed in ouches of gold in their inclosings. 
And the stones were according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a signet, every one with his name, according to the twelve tribes. 
And they made upon the breastplate chains at the ends, of wreathen work of pure gold. 
And they made two ouches of gold, and two gold rings; and put the two rings in the two ends of the breastplate. 
And they put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two rings on the ends of the breastplate. 
And the two ends of the two wreathen chains they fastened in the two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod, before it. 
And they made two rings of gold, and put them on the two ends of the breastplate, upon the border of it, which was on the side of the ephod inward. 
And they made two other golden rings, and put them on the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart of it, over against the other coupling thereof, above the curious girdle of the ephod. 
And they did bind the breastplate by his rings unto the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it might be above the curious girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate might not be loosed from the ephod; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue. 
And there was an hole in the midst of the robe, as the hole of an habergeon, with a band round about the hole, that it should not rend. 
And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen. 
And they made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates upon the hem of the robe, round about between the pomegranates; 
A bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, round about the hem of the robe to minister in; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
And they made coats of fine linen of woven work for Aaron, and for his sons, 
And a mitre of fine linen, and goodly bonnets of fine linen, and linen breeches of fine twined linen, 
And a girdle of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, of needlework; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote upon it a writing, like to the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS TO THE LORD. 
And they tied unto it a lace of blue, to fasten it on high upon the mitre; as the LORD commanded Moses. 
Thus was all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation finished: and the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did they. 
And they brought the tabernacle unto Moses, the tent, and all his furniture, his taches, his boards, his bars, and his pillars, and his sockets, 
And the covering of rams' skins dyed red, and the covering of badgers' skins, and the vail of the covering, 
The ark of the testimony, and the staves thereof, and the mercy seat, 
The table, and all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread, 
