And there came forth a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and said, I will persuade him. 
And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, Thou shalt persude him, and prevail also: go forth, and do so. 
Now therefore, behold, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these thy prophets, and the LORD hath spoken evil concerning thee. 
But Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah went near, and smote Micaiah on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the LORD from me to speak unto thee? 
And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see in that day, when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself. 
And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back unto Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king's son; 
And say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I come in peace. 
And Micaiah said, If thou return at all in peace, the LORD hath not spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, O people, every one of you. 
So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramothgilead. 
And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, and enter into the battle; but put thou on thy robes. And the king of Israel disguised himself, and went into the battle. 
But the king of Syria commanded his thirty and two captains that had rule over his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king of Israel. 
And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, Surely it is the king of Israel. And they turned aside to fight against him: and Jehoshaphat cried out. 
And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots perceived that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him. 
And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness: wherefore he said unto the driver of his chariot, Turn thine hand, and carry me out of the host; for I am wounded. 
And the battle increased that day: and the king was stayed up in his chariot against the Syrians, and died at even: and the blood ran out of the wound into the midst of the chariot. 
And there went a proclamation throughout the host about the going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city, and every man to his own country. 
So the king died, and was brought to Samaria; and they buried the king in Samaria. 
And one washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria; and the dogs licked up his blood; and they washed his armour; according unto the word of the LORD which he spake. 
Now the rest of the acts of Ahab, and all that he did, and the ivory house which he made, and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
So Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead. 
And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel. 
Jehoshaphat was thirty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. 
And he walked in all the ways of Asa his father; he turned not aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of the LORD: nevertheless the high places were not taken away; for the people offered and burnt incense yet in the high places. 
And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel. 
Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he shewed, and how he warred, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 
And the remnant of the sodomites, which remained in the days of his father Asa, he took out of the land. 
There was then no king in Edom: a deputy was king. 
Jehoshaphat made ships of Tharshish to go to Ophir for gold: but they went not; for the ships were broken at Eziongeber. 
Then said Ahaziah the son of Ahab unto Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with thy servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat would not. 
And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Jehoram his son reigned in his stead. 
Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned two years over Israel. 
And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin: 
For he served Baal, and worshipped him, and provoked to anger the LORD God of Israel, according to all that his father had done. 
Adam, Sheth, Enosh, 
Kenan, Mahalaleel, Jered, 
Henoch, Methuselah, Lamech, 
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. 
And the sons of Gomer; Ashchenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah. 
And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. 
The sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. 
And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raamah, and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan. 
And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be mighty upon the earth. 
And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim, 
And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (of whom came the Philistines,) and Caphthorim. 
And Canaan begat Zidon his firstborn, and Heth, 
The Jebusite also, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite, 
And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 
And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. 
The sons of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech. 
And Arphaxad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber. 
And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg; because in his days the earth was divided: and his brother's name was Joktan. 
And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah, 
Hadoram also, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
And Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba, 
And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan. 
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah, 
Eber, Peleg, Reu, 
Serug, Nahor, Terah, 
Abram; the same is Abraham. 
The sons of Abraham; Isaac, and Ishmael. 
These are their generations: The firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth; then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 
Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema, 
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael. 
Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bare Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan; Sheba, and Dedan. 
And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah. 
And Abraham begat Isaac. The sons of Isaac; Esau and Israel. 
The sons of Esau; Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. 
The sons of Eliphaz; Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek. 
The sons of Reuel; Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. 
And the sons of Seir; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezar, and Dishan. 
And the sons of Lotan; Hori, and Homam: and Timna was Lotan's sister. 
The sons of Shobal; Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. and the sons of Zibeon; Aiah, and Anah. 
The sons of Anah; Dishon. And the sons of Dishon; Amram, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 
The sons of Ezer; Bilhan, and Zavan, and Jakan. The sons of Dishan; Uz, and Aran. 
Now these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the children of Israel; Bela the son of Beor: and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
And when Bela was dead, Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead. 
And when Jobab was dead, Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead. 
And when Husham was dead, Hadad the son of Bedad, which smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Avith. 
And when Hadad was dead, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead. 
And when Samlah was dead, Shaul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead. 
And when Shaul was dead, Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead. 
And when Baalhanan was dead, Hadad reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Pai; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab. 
Hadad died also. And the dukes of Edom were; duke Timnah, duke Aliah, duke Jetheth, 
Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon, 
Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 
Duke Magdiel, duke Iram. These are the dukes of Edom. 
These are the sons of Israel; Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun, 
Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
The sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah: which three were born unto him of the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er, the firstborn of Judah, was evil in the sight of the LORD; and he slew him. 
And Tamar his daughter in law bore him Pharez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah were five. 
The sons of Pharez; Hezron, and Hamul. 
And the sons of Zerah; Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara: five of them in all. 
And the sons of Carmi; Achar, the troubler of Israel, who transgressed in the thing accursed. 
And the sons of Ethan; Azariah. 
The sons also of Hezron, that were born unto him; Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai. 
And Ram begat Amminadab; and Amminadab begat Nahshon, prince of the children of Judah; 
And Nahshon begat Salma, and Salma begat Boaz, 
And Boaz begat Obed, and Obed begat Jesse, 
And Jesse begat his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimma the third, 
