And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him: 
Every beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl, and whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went forth out of the ark. 
And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar. 
And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake; for the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; neither will I again smite any more every thing living, as I have done. 
While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease. 
And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth. 
And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are they delivered. 
Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as the green herb have I given you all things. 
But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye not eat. 
And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man. 
Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God made he man. 
And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein. 
And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 
And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you; 
And with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth. 
And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth. 
And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations: 
I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth. 
And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud: 
And I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh. 
And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth. 
And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth. 
And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan. 
These are the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth overspread. 
And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard: 
And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent. 
And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without. 
And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father's nakedness. 
And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had done unto him. 
And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren. 
And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant. 
God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant. 
And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years. 
And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and he died. 
Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood. 
The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. 
And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah. 
And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. 
By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands; every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations. 
And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan. 
And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtechah: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan. 
And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth. 
He was a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said, Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD. 
And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. 
Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the city Rehoboth, and Calah, 
And Resen between Nineveh and Calah: the same is a great city. 
And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim, 
And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) and Caphtorim. 
And Canaan begat Sidon his first born, and Heth, 
And the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite, 
And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 
And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread abroad. 
And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha. 
These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their countries, and in their nations. 
Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born. 
The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram. 
And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash. 
And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber. 
And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg; for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan. 
And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah, 
And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba, 
And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these were the sons of Joktan. 
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar a mount of the east. 
These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, after their nations. 
These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations: and by these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood. 
And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech. 
And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there. 
And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for morter. 
And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth. 
And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded. 
And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do. 
Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech. 
So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off to build the city. 
Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth. 
These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred years old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood: 
And Shem lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah: 
And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber: 
And Salah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg: 
And Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu: 
And Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug: 
And Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor: 
And Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah: 
And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran. 
Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot. 
And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees. 
And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wife was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah. 
But Sarai was barren; she had no child. 
And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son's son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there. 
And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah died in Haran. 
Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will shew thee: 
And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing: 
