And Joel, and Jehu the son of Josibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel, 
And Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah, 
And Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah; 
These mentioned by their names were princes in their families: and the house of their fathers increased greatly. 
And they went to the entrance of Gedor, even unto the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks. 
And they found fat pasture and good, and the land was wide, and quiet, and peaceable; for they of Ham had dwelt there of old. 
And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and smote their tents, and the habitations that were found there, and destroyed them utterly unto this day, and dwelt in their rooms: because there was pasture there for their flocks. 
And some of them, even of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men, went to mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi. 
And they smote the rest of the Amalekites that were escaped, and dwelt there unto this day. 
Now the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel, (for he was the firstborn; but forasmuch as he defiled his father's bed, his birthright was given unto the sons of Joseph the son of Israel: and the genealogy is not to be reckoned after the birthright. 
For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the chief ruler; but the birthright was Joseph's:) 
The sons, I say, of Reuben the firstborn of Israel were, Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. 
The sons of Joel; Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son, 
Micah his son, Reaia his son, Baal his son, 
Beerah his son, whom Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria carried away captive: he was prince of the Reubenites. 
And his brethren by their families, when the genealogy of their generations was reckoned, were the chief, Jeiel, and Zechariah, 
And Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who dwelt in Aroer, even unto Nebo and Baalmeon: 
And eastward he inhabited unto the entering in of the wilderness from the river Euphrates: because their cattle were multiplied in the land of Gilead. 
And in the days of Saul they made war with the Hagarites, who fell by their hand: and they dwelt in their tents throughout all the east land of Gilead. 
And the children of Gad dwelt over against them, in the land of Bashan unto Salcah: 
Joel the chief, and Shapham the next, and Jaanai, and Shaphat in Bashan. 
And their brethren of the house of their fathers were, Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jachan, and Zia, and Heber, seven. 
These are the children of Abihail the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz; 
Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, chief of the house of their fathers. 
And they dwelt in Gilead in Bashan, and in her towns, and in all the suburbs of Sharon, upon their borders. 
All these were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel. 
The sons of Reuben, and the Gadites, and half the tribe of Manasseh, of valiant men, men able to bear buckler and sword, and to shoot with bow, and skilful in war, were four and forty thousand seven hundred and threescore, that went out to the war. 
And they made war with the Hagarites, with Jetur, and Nephish, and Nodab. 
And they were helped against them, and the Hagarites were delivered into their hand, and all that were with them: for they cried to God in the battle, and he was intreated of them; because they put their trust in him. 
And they took away their cattle; of their camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and of asses two thousand, and of men an hundred thousand. 
For there fell down many slain, because the war was of God. And they dwelt in their steads until the captivity. 
And the children of the half tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land: they increased from Bashan unto Baalhermon and Senir, and unto mount Hermon. 
And these were the heads of the house of their fathers, even Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of valour, famous men, and heads of the house of their fathers. 
And they transgressed against the God of their fathers, and went a whoring after the gods of the people of the land, whom God destroyed before them. 
And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria, and the spirit of Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria, and he carried them away, even the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, and brought them unto Halah, and Habor, and Hara, and to the river Gozan, unto this day. 
The sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
And the sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. 
And the children of Amram; Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam. The sons also of Aaron; Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. 
Eleazar begat Phinehas, Phinehas begat Abishua, 
And Abishua begat Bukki, and Bukki begat Uzzi, 
And Uzzi begat Zerahiah, and Zerahiah begat Meraioth, 
Meraioth begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub, 
And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Ahimaaz, 
And Ahimaaz begat Azariah, and Azariah begat Johanan, 
And Johanan begat Azariah, (he it is that executed the priest's office in the temple that Solomon built in Jerusalem:) 
And Azariah begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub, 
And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Shallum, 
And Shallum begat Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begat Azariah, 
And Azariah begat Seraiah, and Seraiah begat Jehozadak, 
And Jehozadak went into captivity, when the LORD carried away Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar. 
The sons of Levi; Gershom, Kohath, and Merari. 
And these be the names of the sons of Gershom; Libni, and Shimei. 
And the sons of Kohath were, Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel. 
The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. And these are the families of the Levites according to their fathers. 
Of Gershom; Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son, 
Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeaterai his son. 
The sons of Kohath; Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son, 
Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son, 
Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son. 
And the sons of Elkanah; Amasai, and Ahimoth. 
As for Elkanah: the sons of Elkanah; Zophai his son, and Nahath his son, 
Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son. 
And the sons of Samuel; the firstborn Vashni, and Abiah. 
The sons of Merari; Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzza his son, 
Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son. 
And these are they whom David set over the service of song in the house of the LORD, after that the ark had rest. 
And they ministered before the dwelling place of the tabernacle of the congregation with singing, until Solomon had built the house of the LORD in Jerusalem: and then they waited on their office according to their order. 
And these are they that waited with their children. Of the sons of the Kohathites: Heman a singer, the son of Joel, the son of Shemuel, 
The son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah, 
The son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai, 
The son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah, 
The son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, 
The son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel. 
And his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, even Asaph the son of Berachiah, the son of Shimea, 
The son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchiah, 
The son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah, 
The son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei, 
The son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi. 
And their brethren the sons of Merari stood on the left hand: Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch, 
The son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah, 
The son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shamer, 
The son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi. 
Their brethren also the Levites were appointed unto all manner of service of the tabernacle of the house of God. 
But Aaron and his sons offered upon the altar of the burnt offering, and on the altar of incense, and were appointed for all the work of the place most holy, and to make an atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded. 
And these are the sons of Aaron; Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son, 
Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son, 
Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son, 
Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son. 
Now these are their dwelling places throughout their castles in their coasts, of the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites: for theirs was the lot. 
And they gave them Hebron in the land of Judah, and the suburbs thereof round about it. 
But the fields of the city, and the villages thereof, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh. 
And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of Judah, namely, Hebron, the city of refuge, and Libnah with her suburbs, and Jattir, and Eshtemoa, with their suburbs, 
And Hilen with her suburbs, Debir with her suburbs, 
And Ashan with her suburbs, and Bethshemesh with her suburbs: 
And out of the tribe of Benjamin; Geba with her suburbs, and Alemeth with her suburbs, and Anathoth with her suburbs. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen cities. 
And unto the sons of Kohath, which were left of the family of that tribe, were cities given out of the half tribe, namely, out of the half tribe of Manasseh, by lot, ten cities. 
And to the sons of Gershom throughout their families out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities. 
Unto the sons of Merari were given by lot, throughout their families, out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities. 
And the children of Israel gave to the Levites these cities with their suburbs. 
And they gave by lot out of the tribe of the children of Judah, and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the children of Benjamin, these cities, which are called by their names. 
