Then Jethro, Moses' father in law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her back, 
And her two sons; of which the name of the one was Gershom; for he said, I have been an alien in a strange land: 
And the name of the other was Eliezer; for the God of my father, said he, was mine help, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh: 
And Jethro, Moses' father in law, came with his sons and his wife unto Moses into the wilderness, where he encamped at the mount of God: 
And he said unto Moses, I thy father in law Jethro am come unto thee, and thy wife, and her two sons with her. 
And Moses went out to meet his father in law, and did obeisance, and kissed him; and they asked each other of their welfare; and they came into the tent. 
And Moses told his father in law all that the LORD had done unto Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, and all the travail that had come upon them by the way, and how the LORD delivered them. 
And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had done to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians. 
And Jethro said, Blessed be the LORD, who hath delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who hath delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians. 
Now I know that the LORD is greater than all gods: for in the thing wherein they dealt proudly he was above them. 
And Jethro, Moses' father in law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God: and Aaron came, and all the elders of Israel, to eat bread with Moses' father in law before God. 
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses sat to judge the people: and the people stood by Moses from the morning unto the evening. 
And when Moses' father in law saw all that he did to the people, he said, What is this thing that thou doest to the people? why sittest thou thyself alone, and all the people stand by thee from morning unto even? 
And Moses said unto his father in law, Because the people come unto me to enquire of God: 
When they have a matter, they come unto me; and I judge between one and another, and I do make them know the statutes of God, and his laws. 
And Moses' father in law said unto him, The thing that thou doest is not good. 
Thou wilt surely wear away, both thou, and this people that is with thee: for this thing is too heavy for thee; thou art not able to perform it thyself alone. 
Hearken now unto my voice, I will give thee counsel, and God shall be with thee: Be thou for the people to God-ward, that thou mayest bring the causes unto God: 
And thou shalt teach them ordinances and laws, and shalt shew them the way wherein they must walk, and the work that they must do. 
Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness; and place such over them, to be rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens: 
And let them judge the people at all seasons: and it shall be, that every great matter they shall bring unto thee, but every small matter they shall judge: so shall it be easier for thyself, and they shall bear the burden with thee. 
If thou shalt do this thing, and God command thee so, then thou shalt be able to endure, and all this people shall also go to their place in peace. 
So Moses hearkened to the voice of his father in law, and did all that he had said. 
And Moses chose able men out of all Israel, and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens. 
And they judged the people at all seasons: the hard causes they brought unto Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves. 
And Moses let his father in law depart; and he went his way into his own land. 
In the third month, when the children of Israel were gone forth out of the land of Egypt, the same day came they into the wilderness of Sinai. 
For they were departed from Rephidim, and were come to the desert of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness; and there Israel camped before the mount. 
And Moses went up unto God, and the LORD called unto him out of the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel; 
Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, and how I bare you on eagles' wings, and brought you unto myself. 
Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people: for all the earth is mine: 
And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests, and an holy nation. These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel. 
And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before their faces all these words which the LORD commanded him. 
And all the people answered together, and said, All that the LORD hath spoken we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people unto the LORD. 
And the LORD said unto Moses, Lo, I come unto thee in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with thee, and believe thee for ever. And Moses told the words of the people unto the LORD. 
And the LORD said unto Moses, Go unto the people, and sanctify them to day and to morrow, and let them wash their clothes, 
And be ready against the third day: for the third day the LORD will come down in the sight of all the people upon mount Sinai. 
And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about, saying, Take heed to yourselves, that ye go not up into the mount, or touch the border of it: whosoever toucheth the mount shall be surely put to death: 
There shall not an hand touch it, but he shall surely be stoned, or shot through; whether it be beast or man, it shall not live: when the trumpet soundeth long, they shall come up to the mount. 
And Moses went down from the mount unto the people, and sanctified the people; and they washed their clothes. 
And he said unto the people, Be ready against the third day: come not at your wives. 
And it came to pass on the third day in the morning, that there were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people that was in the camp trembled. 
And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God; and they stood at the nether part of the mount. 
And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the LORD descended upon it in fire: and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mount quaked greatly. 
And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long, and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice. 
And the LORD came down upon mount Sinai, on the top of the mount: and the LORD called Moses up to the top of the mount; and Moses went up. 
And the LORD said unto Moses, Go down, charge the people, lest they break through unto the LORD to gaze, and many of them perish. 
And let the priests also, which come near to the LORD, sanctify themselves, lest the LORD break forth upon them. 
And Moses said unto the LORD, The people cannot come up to mount Sinai: for thou chargedst us, saying, Set bounds about the mount, and sanctify it. 
And the LORD said unto him, Away, get thee down, and thou shalt come up, thou, and Aaron with thee: but let not the priests and the people break through to come up unto the LORD, lest he break forth upon them. 
So Moses went down unto the people, and spake unto them. 
And God spake all these words, saying, 
I am the LORD thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. 
Thou shalt have no other gods before me. 
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. 
Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the LORD thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me; 
And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my commandments. 
Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain; for the LORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. 
Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. 
Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: 
But the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: 
For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the LORD blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it. 
Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee. 
Thou shalt not kill. 
Thou shalt not commit adultery. 
Thou shalt not steal. 
Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour. 
Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbour's. 
And all the people saw the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking: and when the people saw it, they removed, and stood afar off. 
And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear: but let not God speak with us, lest we die. 
And Moses said unto the people, Fear not: for God is come to prove you, and that his fear may be before your faces, that ye sin not. 
And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the thick darkness where God was. 
And the LORD said unto Moses, Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel, Ye have seen that I have talked with you from heaven. 
Ye shall not make with me gods of silver, neither shall ye make unto you gods of gold. 
An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me, and shalt sacrifice thereon thy burnt offerings, and thy peace offerings, thy sheep, and thine oxen: in all places where I record my name I will come unto thee, and I will bless thee. 
And if thou wilt make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build it of hewn stone: for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast polluted it. 
Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar, that thy nakedness be not discovered thereon. 
Now these are the judgments which thou shalt set before them. 
If thou buy an Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve: and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing. 
If he came in by himself, he shall go out by himself: if he were married, then his wife shall go out with him. 
If his master have given him a wife, and she have born him sons or daughters; the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out by himself. 
And if the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free: 
Then his master shall bring him unto the judges; he shall also bring him to the door, or unto the door post; and his master shall bore his ear through with an aul; and he shall serve him for ever. 
And if a man sell his daughter to be a maidservant, she shall not go out as the menservants do. 
If she please not her master, who hath betrothed her to himself, then shall he let her be redeemed: to sell her unto a strange nation he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully with her. 
And if he have betrothed her unto his son, he shall deal with her after the manner of daughters. 
If he take him another wife; her food, her raiment, and her duty of marriage, shall he not diminish. 
And if he do not these three unto her, then shall she go out free without money. 
He that smiteth a man, so that he die, shall be surely put to death. 
And if a man lie not in wait, but God deliver him into his hand; then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee. 
But if a man come presumptuously upon his neighbour, to slay him with guile; thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die. 
And he that smiteth his father, or his mother, shall be surely put to death. 
And he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death. 
And he that curseth his father, or his mother, shall surely be put to death. 
And if men strive together, and one smite another with a stone, or with his fist, and he die not, but keepeth his bed: 
If he rise again, and walk abroad upon his staff, then shall he that smote him be quit: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall cause him to be thoroughly healed. 
And if a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and he die under his hand; he shall be surely punished. 
Notwithstanding, if he continue a day or two, he shall not be punished: for he is his money. 
If men strive, and hurt a woman with child, so that her fruit depart from her, and yet no mischief follow: he shall be surely punished, according as the woman's husband will lay upon him; and he shall pay as the judges determine. 
And if any mischief follow, then thou shalt give life for life, 
